.\" Copyright (c) 2007 Alexander Wanger
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free
.\" Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111,
.\" USA.
.\"
.TH dgtnixGetBoard 3  2007-02-02 "dgtnix Manpage" "dgtnix Library Reference"
.SH NAME
dgtnixGetBoard
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <dgtnix.h>
.sp
.BI "const char *board = dgtnixGetBoard();"
.PP
This function returns a 
.I "const char *"
containing the current board position on the DGT Electronic Chess
board.
.PP
.SS "Return value"
A
.I "const char *"
with the current board representation. All pieces are given as ASCII
characters, white pieces in upper- black pieces in lower case. The
array is 64 bytes large, one character for every square starting at A1
to H1, A2 to H2 and so on up to H8.

.SH NOTES
To display a simple graphical representation of the board the
one may use:
.PP
  for (int sq = 0; sq < 64; sq++) {
     printf(" %1c |", board[sq]);
     if ((sq+1) % 8 == 0) {
        printf(" %i \n", 8-sq / 8);
        printf(" |");
     }
  }
  printf(" a   b   c   d   e   f   g   h |\n");

.PP
Note to keep in mind that the board may be used rotated by 180
degrees, i.e. the chess clock beeing to whites right.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR dgtnixClose (3),
.BR dgtnixGetClockData (3),
.BR dgtnixPrintBoard (3),
.BR dgtnixQueryString (3),
.BR dgtnixSetOption (3),
.BR dgtnixTestBoard (3)
