.\" Copyright (c) 2007 Alexander Wanger
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free
.\" Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111,
.\" USA.
.\"
.TH dgtnixQueryString 3  2007-02-02 "dgtnix Manpage" "dgtnix Library Reference"
.SH NAME
dgtnixQueryString
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <dgtnix.h>
.sp
.BI "const char dgtnixQueryString(unsigned int);"
.PP
The function
.B dgtnixQueryString
is uesd to retrieve information from the board.
.PP
.SS "Arguments"
The following arguments can be passed to
.I dgtnixQueryString
.TP
.B DGTNIX_SERIAL_STRING
The serial number of the DGT Electronic Chess board.
.TP
.B DGTNIX_BUS_ADDRESS_STRING
The current BUS address of the board.
.TP
.B DGTNIX_VERSION_STRING
The version of the boards internal software.
.TP
.B DGTNIX_TRADEMARK_STRING
The trademark string of the board.
.I Note
This string contains line breaks.
.TP
.B DGTNIX_VERSION
The version of the dgtnix library itself.
.PP
.SS "Return values"
The requested string in printable form.
.SH NOTES
The returned string 
.B must not
be freed!

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR dgtnixClose (3),
.BR dgtnixGetClockData (3),
.BR dgtnixPrintBoard (3),
.BR dgtnixQueryString (3),
.BR dgtnixSetOption (3),
.BR dgtnixTestBoard (3)
