.\" Copyright (c) 2007 Alexander Wanger
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free
.\" Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111,
.\" USA.
.\"
.TH dgtnixGetClockData 3  2007-02-02 "dgtnix Manpage" "dgtnix Library Reference"
.SH NAME
dgtnixGetClockData
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <dgtnix.h>
.sp
.BI "int dgtnixGetClockData(int * white_time, int * black_time, int *
turn);"
.PP
The function
.B dgtnixGetClockData
reads data not from the chess board itself but from an attached DGT
Digital Chess Clock.
.PP
.SS "Return value"
.TP
.B 1
A DGT Digital Chess Clock was found.
.TP
.B 0
No DGT Digital Chess Clock was found.
.PP
.SS "Argument"
.TP
.B white_time
an integer pointer that contains whites time as sent by the clock.
.TP
.B black_time
an integer pointer that contains blacks time as sent by the clock.
.TP
.B white_turn
regarding the buttons on the clock 1 is returned if it si white to
move, 0 otherwise (ie. black to move).

.SH NOTES
Obviously this function has no effect if no clock is attached. However
a clock is 
.B not
required to use the DGT Electronic Chess board.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR dgtnixClose (3),
.BR dgtnixGetClockData (3),
.BR dgtnixPrintBoard (3),
.BR dgtnixQueryString (3),
.BR dgtnixSetOption (3),
.BR dgtnixTestBoard (3)
