.\" Copyright (c) 2007 Alexander Wanger
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free
.\" Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111,
.\" USA.
.\"
.TH dgtnixSetOption 3  2007-02-02 "dgtnix Manpage" "dgtnix Library Reference"
.SH NAME
dgtnixSetOption
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <dgtnix.h>
.sp
.BI "void dgtnixSetOption(unsigned long option, unsigned int value);"
.PP
The function
.B dgtnixSetOption
can be used to set options for the board handling or the dgtnix
library.
.PP
.SS "Arguments"
The first argument is the options name to set. Valid names are:
.TP
.B DGTNIX_DEBUG
This enables debug output form the dgtnix library. The debugging
output is written to 
.I stderr.
Possible values are
.RS
.IP DGTNIX_DEBUG_OFF
Debugging is disabled, not messages are written. This should be the
default for stable applications.
.IP DGTNIX_DEBUG_ON
Enables general debugging but without messages resulting from the DGT
Digital Chess Clock which can be attached to the board.
.IP DGTNIX_DEBUG_WITH_TIME
Writes all debugging messages including those resulting from the DGT
Digital Chess Clock.
.RE
.PP
.TP
.B DGTNIX_BOARD_ORIENTATION
Though the board as such is symmetric it has internally an
orientation. If the serial or USB connector of the board is to the
left of whites pieces in the starting position, than A1 is in the
lower left corner. If the board is used "with the clock to whites
right" it is used "upside down". For changes on the board to be
transcoded correctly by the dgtnix library one can use 
.I DGTNIX_BOARD_ORIENTATION
to set this. Valid values are
.RS
.IP DGTNIX_BOARD_ORIENTATION_CLOCKLEFT
This is the normal orientation of the board.
.IP DGTNIX_BOARD_ORIENTATION_CLOCKRIGHT
This is the upside down orientation.
.RE
.PP

.SH NOTES
It is advisable to set the options after dgtnixInit. However they can
of course be changes while the connection is open. The effect is
immediate.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR dgtnixClose (3),
.BR dgtnixGetClockData (3),
.BR dgtnixPrintBoard (3),
.BR dgtnixQueryString (3),
.BR dgtnixSetOption (3),
.BR dgtnixTestBoard (3)
